#summary Documentation for M3 game engine.
---

== Introduction ==

While M3 can be said to have its own _game engine_, it does make use of a _physics engine_.  We chose the  [http://www.box2d.org Box2D physics engine], a 2D rigid body simulation library originally written in C++.  M3 is currently running the [http://code.google.com/p/box2dweb/ box2dweb] JavaScript port which was converted from Box2DFlash 2.1a.  The M3 `world` and `contact` modules as well as the `PhysicsObject` type serve as the main wrappers around Box2D objects and classes. Through them all the game's communication with the Box2D simulation takes place.

== Details ==

Box2D consists of 3 interconnected modules that together simulate a physics environment: `Collision`, `Dynamics`, and `Common`.  The `Collision` module defines shapes and manages collision detection.  The `Dynamics` module simulates the physical world with bodies and fixtures for interactions with forces including gravity. `Common` holds some math functions and other adjustable properties.

The `PhysicsObject` type is a wrapper around a Box2D object instance consisting of a body and shape.  It also contains data such as sprites and other attributes.  The contact module implements the Box2D contact listener for collision detection that computes the impact velocities for awarding damage.  The world module creates the Box2D world and steps the world simulation at the appropriate time and interval.  It has convenience methods to create physical objects.  These methods are usually called in the constructors for other types.  The signatures of these calls are:

{{{  
   createBox(x, y, width, height, angle, fixed, density, restitution, friction)
   createCircle(x, y, radius, fixed, density, restitution, friction)
   createPoly(x, y, points, angle, fixed, density, restitution, friction) 
}}}

The parameters include the `x` and `y` coordinates in meters of the object's centroid. The parameter `fixed` is a Boolean that determines if an object will be fixed at a location or will interact with forces such as gravity, while `density`, `friction`, and `restitution` (bounciness) are Box2D physical properties of an object (refer to the [http://www.box2d.org/manual.html API] for acceptable values).  For `createPoly`, an array of points is taken that are about the objects centroid as its origin.